
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# staticimports

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

**staticimports** provides utility functions that R programmers can use
in their packages or other projects. The “static” part means that the
functions are statically “imported” – that is they copied into the
project as text, instead of being loaded from a package at run time.

The benefits of doing things this way:

-   A package/project that uses staticimports will not take a run-time
    dependency staticimports.
-   Any changes to a function in **staticimports** will not affect a
    project that uses them, until the author decides to re-import them.
-   You can specify the individual functions to import. This is faster
    and lighter-weight than loading a separate package, especially if
    the package has much more functionality than you need.
-   There is zero commitment: After you use staticimports once, you
    never have to use it again.

Instead of copying and pasting utility functions from project to
project, the utility functions can be centralized in **staticimports**,
where they can be vetted and tested.

The functions in **staticimports** are designed to be:

-   Fast
-   Simple
-   Have no external dependencies

If your project imports a function from **staticimports**, and that
function changes in a way that has a negative impact on your project,
you can simply stop importing it from **staticimports**, and copy the
old version to a separate file.

## Installation

You can install the development version of staticimports with:

``` r
remotes::install_github("wch/staticimports")
```

## Usage

To use, put a comment block starting with `# @staticimports` in one of
your R source files. For example, your `utils.R` may have this at the
top:

    # @staticimports
    #  os_name %||%
    #  map walk

This comment block names the functions to copy from staticimports. To do
the import, run:

``` r
staticimports::import()
```

By default this will write these funcitons to a file `R/staticimports.R`
in your project.

You examine the output by writing to `stdout()` instead of
`R/staticimports.R`. Notice how importing `os_name` automatically brings
in `is_windows`, `is_mac`, and `is_linux`.

``` r
staticimports::import(outfile = stdout())
```

    #> # Generated by staticimports; do not edit by hand.
    #> 
    #> `%||%` <- function(a, b) {
    #>   if (is.null(a)) b else a
    #> }
    #> 
    #> is_linux <- function() Sys.info()[['sysname']] == 'Linux'
    #> 
    #> is_mac <- function() Sys.info()[['sysname']] == 'Darwin'
    #> 
    #> is_windows <- function() .Platform$OS.type == "windows"
    #> 
    #> map <- function(.x, .f, ...) {
    #>   lapply(.x, .f, ...)
    #> }
    #> 
    #> os_name <- function() {
    #>   if (is_windows()) {
    #>     "win"
    #>   } else if (is_mac()) {
    #>     "mac"
    #>   } else if (is_linux()) {
    #>     "linux"
    #>   } else if (.Platform$OS.type == "unix") {
    #>     "unix"
    #>   } else {
    #>     "unknown"
    #>   }
    #> }
    #> 
    #> walk <- function(.x, .f, ...) {
    #>   for (i in seq_along(.x)) {
    #>     .f(.x[[i]], ...)
    #>   }
    #>   NULL
    #> }

For testing what the output will look like, you can use `import_objs()`
to see what it looks like when you import specific objects by name:

``` r
staticimports::import_objs(c("map", "walk"), stdout())
#> # Generated by staticimports; do not edit by hand.
#> 
#> map <- function(.x, .f, ...) {
#>   lapply(.x, .f, ...)
#> }
#> 
#> walk <- function(.x, .f, ...) {
#>   for (i in seq_along(.x)) {
#>     .f(.x[[i]], ...)
#>   }
#>   NULL
#> }
```

## TODO

-   Figure out and explain licensing issues.
-   Write license info in generated file.

## Some conventions

Note: This is currently just a dumping ground for ideas.

### Don’t use `force()`

Two reasons:

-   Error reporting
-   Missing args

``` r
with_option <- function(x, y) {
  force(x)
}

with_option(a = 123)
#> Error in with_option(a = 123): unused argument (a = 123)

with_option2 <- function(x, y) {
  x
}

with_option2(a = 123)
#> Error in with_option2(a = 123): unused argument (a = 123)

err <- function() { stop("asdf") }

f()
#> Error in f(): could not find function "f"
```

### Don’t use `match.arg()`

-   `match.arg()` is slow, at least if values are inferred
    automatically.
